# CS-360-Mobile-Architect-Programming

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The app I developed for this project was the Inventory Tracking App which its primary design was focused on helping users manage inventory items efficiently. This app contained code that allowed users to add, edit, and delete inventory items as need, while also keeping tracking and monitoring their quantities. Additionally, the app also included the capability of notifying the user for when items were of low stock. This is one of the main features that set this app a part from other inventory tracking apps. Another feature of the app was the ability of the user to login using certain credentials like a username and password. The sensitive client information would be stored on a database using SQLite which would then be authenticated when a user would log in. If successful, the user would have access to the a previously saved state of inventory items to manage. Another feature was the ability of the app to provide real-time notifications to the user for specific items. If an item was suddenly of low stock, the app would send an SMS alert to the users phone to alert them. 

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The Inventory Tracking app was the culmination of multiple screens; including, a Login screen, an Inventory List screen that displayed all of the items in a grid format, an Add/Edit Item screen which allowed the user to add additional items or edit their quantities as needed, a notification screen that allowed a user to manage SMS notifications for low stock alerts, and finally a logout button, so the user could securely log out of the application. 

My UI design focused on simplicity and ease of navigation, By including various elements like easy to read buttons, maintaining a consistent layout, and building intuitiive interactions provided a relatively straightforward user experience. The designs were successful because they kept the end-user in mind and helped user perform tasks easily and without ambiguity, which improved user usability and satisfaction. 

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
By breaking down the coding process into manageable steps and components I was able to achieve a successful outcome for my app. Implementing various strategies and techniques like modular development, which involved separating classes out by their funcitonality helped to improve the overall design process and keep things as simple as they needed to be. Continuous testing was also crucial during development, as consistent updates were required through multiple components when new features were introduced, like when adding a persistent database required other components to be updated, along with additional support through the apps build configuration. These strategies all helped the project maintain a clear structure and ensure the app was successful. 

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
Testing was performed through implementing a combination of testing strategies like unit testing, integration tests, and manual testing. For instance, iteratively testing the app in both a virtual and physical environment allowed me to test the functionality of the app with a greater perspective. Since I have an android device myself, I was able to install the app on my own device and interact with it from a users perspective. This also allowed me to determine if there were any bugs present in the app, and whenever there was I would quickly address them as needed. Testing through various methods like this helped me to identify edge cases that otherwise may not surfaced. Overall, implementing various testing methods helped to ensure the app was stable and provided a clear and simplistic user experience. 

# Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
One of the most significat challenges for me was ensuring full capability across all of the screens of the app. Ensuring that each screen interfaced with other screens, and would either be updated or notified when a user made a particular change was challenging. Another challenge was implementing the persistent database by way of SQLite, but by innovating through trial and error I was able to integrate this feature successfully. 

# In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
One feature I felt particularily demonstrated my progress as a computer science student at SNHU was the use of the add/edit item screen, as this was the primary screen for a user to interact with. Being able to allow a user to manage and monitor their items at the individual level is what the primary focus of the app was designed for. By creating an easy interface for the user and also displaying the items in a grid format, made it easier for users to interact with the app. Including features like adding additional items, or adding and subtracting the quantity of an item, and even deleting the item from the database altogether was an impressive feature. One that I could see myself emulating across other apps int he future as well. 
